gender.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Gender"
permalink: /gender/
---

Here I will link to all of my gender-related pages on this site,
with brief summaries.

### Blog posts

[An Introduction to My Nonbinary Gender](/2023/07/06/my-gender):
I am nonbinary.
This post explains the basics of what that means, for me.
This is a good place to start if you're unfamiliar with nonbinaryness as a concept.

[They/she Q&A](/2024/01/19/they-she):
I use they/she pronouns.
This post explains the basics of what that means, for me.
This is a good place to start if you're unfamiliar with people using multiple pronoun sets.

[Learning to talk](/2023/11/25/learning-to-talk):
A poem about the pain and joy of voice training.

[Gender: Desire and Identity](/2024/02/09/gender-desire):
Do you wish things were different, gender-wise?
Wish you were a man, or a woman, or neither?
But you don't feel like you are the gender you wish you were?
Your feelings are valid, and you're not alone.
I was in the same boat for many years.
Come read this post.

### Transition photos
I started estrogen HRT on April 18th, 2023.
Every month since then,
I've been taking photos in a variety of lovely locations
to document and celebrate how my appearance changes.

* [Month 1](/2023/05/17/transition-1)
* [Month 2](/2023/06/24/transition-2)
* [Month 3](/2023/08/01/transition-3)
* [Month 4](/2023/08/22/transition-4)
* [Month 5](/2023/09/27/transition-5)
* [Month 6](/2023/10/21/transition-6)
* [Month 7](/2023/11/19/transition-7)
* [Month 8](/2023/12/16/transition-8)
* [Month 9](/2024/01/20/transition-9)

Commit message:

Update to main gender post

gender.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Gender"
permalink: /gender/
---

Here I will link to all of my gender-related pages on this site,
with brief summaries.

### Blog posts

[An Introduction to My Nonbinary Gender](/2023/07/06/my-gender):
I am nonbinary.
This post explains the basics of what that means, for me.
This is a good place to start if you're unfamiliar with nonbinaryness as a concept.

[They/she Q&A](/2024/01/19/they-she):
I use they/she pronouns.
This post explains the basics of what that means, for me.
This is a good place to start if you're unfamiliar with people using multiple pronoun sets.

[Learning to talk](/2023/11/25/learning-to-talk):
A poem about the pain and joy of voice training.

[Gender: Desire and Identity](/2024/02/09/gender-desire):
Do you wish things were different, gender-wise?
Wish you were a man, or a woman, or neither?
But you don't feel like you are the gender you wish you were?
Your feelings are valid, and you're not alone.
I was in the same boat for many years.
Come read this post.

[Gender Identity, Without Label or Category](/2024/02/14/gender-identity):
Building upon the previous post,
gender identity isn't about adopting a standardized label.
It's about feeling gender from the inside.

### Transition photos
I started estrogen HRT on April 18th, 2023.
Every month since then,
I've been taking photos in a variety of lovely locations
to document and celebrate how my appearance changes.

* [Month 1](/2023/05/17/transition-1)
* [Month 2](/2023/06/24/transition-2)
* [Month 3](/2023/08/01/transition-3)
* [Month 4](/2023/08/22/transition-4)
* [Month 5](/2023/09/27/transition-5)
* [Month 6](/2023/10/21/transition-6)
* [Month 7](/2023/11/19/transition-7)
* [Month 8](/2023/12/16/transition-8)
* [Month 9](/2024/01/20/transition-9)
