index.md, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: page
---
![Isaac Grosof's portrait](/assets/mountain.jpg)

I'm currently on the academic job market, applying for faculty and postdoc positions in computer science, operations research, and related departments. Click here for my [application materials](/job-market).

Isaac Grosof is a sixth-year PhD student in CS at Carnegie Mellon University,
advised by [Mor Harchol-Balter](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~harchol/).
They are currently on the academic job market, looking for positions in Theoretical Computer Science and Operations Research.
They work on stochastic scheduling and resource allocation, with a focus on optimal policies.
Isaac received
the [ACM SIGMETRICS 2021 Best Paper Award](publications/#nudge-stochastically-improving-upon-fcfs),
the [ACM SIGMETRICS 2019 Best Student Paper Award](publications/#load-balancing-guardrails),
and the [IFIP Performance 2018 Best Student Paper Award](publications/#srpt-for-multiserver-systems).

Check out my [thesis proposal](/assets/thesis-proposal.pdf),
which gives a good overview of the core of my research.

Check out my [publications](publications), all of which you can download to read.

Check out my [blog](blog).

Here's some art I made:

![Art](/assets/broken-glass.svg)

Commit message:

Updated CV with teaching and Siebel Scholar

index.md, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: page
---
![Isaac Grosof's portrait](/assets/mountain.jpg)

I'm currently on the academic job market, applying for faculty and postdoc positions in computer science, operations research, and related departments. Click here for my [application materials](/job-market).

Isaac Grosof is a sixth-year PhD student in CS at Carnegie Mellon University,
advised by [Mor Harchol-Balter](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~harchol/).
They are currently on the academic job market, looking for positions in Theoretical Computer Science and Operations Research.
They work on stochastic scheduling and resource allocation, with a focus on optimal policies.
Isaac received
the [ACM SIGMETRICS 2021 Best Paper Award](publications/#nudge-stochastically-improving-upon-fcfs),
the [ACM SIGMETRICS 2019 Best Student Paper Award](publications/#load-balancing-guardrails),
and the [IFIP Performance 2018 Best Student Paper Award](publications/#srpt-for-multiserver-systems).
They are a [2023 Siebel Scholar](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220922005006/en/Siebel-Scholars-Foundation-Announces-Class-of-2023), a fellowship recognizing academic excellence and leadership.

Check out my [thesis proposal](/assets/thesis-proposal.pdf),
which gives a good overview of the core of my research.

Check out my [publications](publications), all of which you can download to read.

Check out my [blog](blog).

Here's some art I made:

![Art](/assets/broken-glass.svg)
