---
layout: post
title: "A Poem to Remember"
---
Today, we face a planetwide pandemic and
increasing interpersonal strife.
Let us look back a hundred years and two, to 1919.
The world faced one of the worst pandemics
in world history,
and the aftermath of the second worst severe war
in world history.

In that context, W. B. Yeats wrote the following
poem, "The Second Coming".
I'd like to type out this poem,
and I'd like everyone to read it.

## The Second Coming

    Turning and turning in the widening gyre
    The falcon cannot hear the falconer;
    Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;
    Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,
    The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere
    The ceremony of innocence is drowned;
    The best lack all conviction, while the worst
    Are full of pationate intensity.
    
    Surely some revelation is at hand;
    Surely the Second Coming is at hand.
    The Second Coming! Hardly are those words out
    When a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi
    Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert
    A shape with a lion body and the head of a man,
    A gaze as blank and pitiless as the sun,
    Is moving is slow thighs, while all about it
    Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds.
    The darkness drops again; but now I know
    That twenty centuries of stony silence
    Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle,
    And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,
    Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?

State into the face of the danger, but remember that
we are descendants of survivors of the catastrophes
that inspired this poem.
