---
published: true
title: "SGGO 17: Voice"
layout: post
---

Episode seventeen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
Voice.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 17: Voice](/assets/podcast/sggo-17-voice.mp3)

About my voices: The living one, and the exhausted one.
And the emotions they bring.
And taking voice pauses to take care of myself.

# Notes

(Speaking in new voice)

Hi, I'm Izzy Grosof, and welcome to the Some Gender Going On Podcast. Today, we'll be talking about my voice, the one I'm using right now.

I really don't like the voice I normally speak with. Not this one, the one you've heard on all the other episodes. It makes me miserable. Now you might ask, why aren't you miserable all the time, then? To that I answer, I'm only miserable when I I think about my voice. It's not at the surface, otherwise. How does that work? Honestly, I don't really get it. I just live it, doesn't mean I understand.

Honestly, it's probably harder to understand from the  inside.

But when I do use that voice and focus on the sound of myself speaking, I start crying almost immediately. Reliably. It doesn't happen as reliably when I listen to recordings, but it's every time when I speak aloud.

I've trained a new voice. I'm using it now, I'll use it throughout this recording. Learning hasn't been easy, because if there's one time when my voice is definitely at the surface, it's while I'm training, just falling out of my rhythm into the voice I hate and repress my hatred of. I also am painfully aware of my voice when I cry. Talking through tears hurts so much because the tears force my throat open wider and give it even more of that masculine bite that I hate. So it's burn or fall silent, but everyone thinks I'm silent because I'm overwhelmed by the emotions when I have so much I want to say but it's such agony to speak it that I cry harder and harder until I can't breathe, I cough and gasp and go silent.

One of the biggest successes of voice training is that sometimes, with great concentration, I can now talk in this voice while crying, which is a massive upgrade.

When I talk about voice training, I'm partially talking about practice on my own, but a big part of what I'm talking about is the formal, professional voice training I did, this winter and spring. It was a devil of a thing to set up, and it didn't focus much on anything specifically gender affirming, but nonetheless it did help quite a bit. It wasn't all sunshine and roses - one time there were so many instructions to follow and errors to correct that I started crying in the midst of a session, and I was so ashamed, they were so unsettled that I thought they'd just fire me on the spot. Instead they just ended that session early and restructured the next time and things were Ok.

And yes, I said fired. If you've never been fired as a customer for being too emotional or disruptive I can only say good for you. I was fired by a therapist for crying too much and  disagreeing with her advice. It was for the best, she correctly assessed that I couldn't get what I needed from her, but it sure felt like shit in the moment. I was nearly fired by a electrologist for crying too much, so I learned to cry quieter, so she couldn't tell.

But the voice folks have been quite helpful on the whole, they helped me out of a deep rut of repressing my feelings and getting nowhere. There is hope, there is a path forward.

What has not been helpful is people telling me they like how my voice sounds. I'm not surprised that my friends like how I sound, but it doesn't change that I don't like how I sound when I'm using my default voice. If anything, it feels worse, because it makes me question whether what I feel is real, tangible, a thing in material reality that admits of the possibility of change. It's Ok, friends, I still love you, but it doesn't help. In the moment, I don't speak up because I know you're trying to be supportive so I feign that the support helps.

This is how I am with receiving support a lot of the time. It's very dangerous to ask for help about something that is truly painful because the attempted help might make it worse and then I have to pretend it helped or find away to let them down easy or say how I actually feel and risk hurting them so much that they don't want to be friends with me anymore and I agree that I'm such a dangerously nasty person that they're probably right. Or sometimes I try to stay as quiet as I can to make waves, and then something slips out and they start interrogating me for my revealed displeasure with them.

So when something really hurts, I either ask for help and prepare to lie, or I make a podcast episode instead. Only one person has complained about me crying too much on these so far, and I hope respectfully that they either find it less painful or have stopped listening, because this being a safe place for me to cry is kind of the whole point. You're not here, so I don't have to be as worried about hurting you. But just in case, let me reiterate: I still love and appreciate you, and I fervently hope nothing I've said so far has hurt you severely. Because even if you're not here, I'm still worried. I know this fear is disproportionate and unhelpful when it comes to whether or not I actually hurt people. And I know it's a gender thing. But we'll save that for another episode, because ostensibly this episode is supposed to be about my voice.

When I feel that lack of confidence in the physical reality of the voice patterns that make me miserable when I stop avoiding thinking about them, I go back to my spectrograms that show the pitch and resonance and weight differences that make this voice materially different, written in the ringing of the air itself, even if no one else hears it, even if no one else cares. And more importantly, one makes me cry, quickly and reliably. And that's real. I exist in material reality. My experiences are real and they matter.

So if I don't derive joy from friends telling me my default voice is nice, what about the reactions of strangers? Well, strangers definitely gender me male off my voice. One person gendered me male off my voice, then switched to female off my appearance, then got the most confused look when I carried on, still in my default voice.

What I am working towards is endurance and  habituation. I want to use this voice all the time. It's somewhere I hope I'll eventually get to, but I need to accept that I can't maintain this forever.

The mentality I need, which is very hard to switch, is to feel like this is normal, like this is how I'm supposed to sound. But that is where I want to get, eventually. It starts with self concept, I suppose. That other voice, it's not my "old voice" or my "default voice", those don't describe how I want to think about it. No, that's my exhausted voice. It's what comes out when I can't do anything else. When I have no life, energy, passion left to push into it. It's a voice of mine, but it's not my voice. By contrast, this voice is my alive voice. This voice rings in time with the vibrations of my soul. In this voice I can hear myself. Both literally in that I can listen to myself without sobbing, but also in that I can hear my joy and my vibrancy in it.

My exhausted voice is lacking that embodiment, fully enervated.

No wonder my living voice is hard to sustain. No wonder I fall back to my exhausted voice so easily. It's hard to push joy through my voice when it's not flowing. When it's an unfamiliar pathway and sorrow and exhaustion ever grace the horizon. I need to forgive myself for finding this hard. I need to build emotional recovery into my practice, into my training.

I think my voice is one part skill, one part joy, and one part perseverance. When my joy empties out and I have only perseverance left, I've learned to struggle along on empty. And that's not the way. I'll never regain joy if I'm scraping myself raw to try to push out one more word, on more syllable. But it doesn't work too well to just lapse back to my exhausted voice, either. Because every time I fall into that voice in despair, every time I hear the switch, it all gets worse. It leaves the whole exercise of reaching for my living voice feeling worse than nothing, like I wish I'd never tried. It makes joy even harder to reach for.

So when I feel the joy dying, how do I want to respond? It's a time to comfort myself. Running empty of joy is never easy, no matter the circumstances. And it's a time to take a break. From speaking at all. It's hard to just cut off speaking in the midst of conversation, especially when I'm physically capable of speaking, when my conversational partner is looking for reassurance and clarification, to know verbally that I'm Ok, that the call hasn't dropped, whatever. Even if it's framed as care, "Are you Ok? Please tell me that you're Ok" is fundamentally saying "Please hurt yourself by speaking on full empty in your exhausted voice to reassure me because I'm confused and frightened by this unexpected turn of events and my confusion is far more important than your dysphoria. Of course, they're not consciously saying that - it's just the implication of the situation.

Fundamentally, this is a form of systemic injustice: My impulse is to deviate from the norm of consistent and predictable speech, and they are attempting to cling to it. So my need to deviate is wildly undervalued, and their confusion is wildly overvalued.

There's a line from a song I like a lot, [Binary by The Spook School](https://thespookschool.bandcamp.com/track/binary-2). The line is "So make them uncomfortable and challenge their ideals, 'cause their antiquated notions are blinding what is real." That's the mindset I want to live by. Their need for my immediate verbal response is an antiquated notion. If they knew everything I know about why I need this sometimes, if they knew everything I've just told you and the wealth of experience I have, they'd know I'm right and that their need for reassurance isn't that important. And even if they wouldn't agree, I know I'm right, so I don't care. Sounds egotistical, and I don't care.

So I'll go silent. I'll take care of myself. And I'll heal. And I'll  take people uncomfortable, and that's Ok. They'll live. I need to take care of myself instead. Put on my own oxygen mask before helping others.

I have strategies for the physical exhaustion part too, when my throat gets tight or raspy. I have my hums and oos. I didn't really get why the speech folks were teaching me. But now I understand: it's physical care and it's physical healing. And it goes hand-in-hand with emotional care and emotional healing, not least because when I involuntarily switch, I most often need both kinds of care.

I ran out of steam while writing this. Took a long pause from speaking to give myself that peace, that safety, that time that I need. And I was able to start back up in my exhausted voice and get by. Maybe I'll do the same while recording. Maybe I already have by now. Just a nice long break of a couple minutes from talking, to comfort myself, to rest. Maybe it was confusing for you. Maybe you thought the recording was broken or buffering. Well, now you know why. And I promise you, I loved the pause. And I needed it.

What I need to learn is the clarity to notice when I'm hitting empty, and the confidence to act in this way I need. Those sound doable. This feels like a path worth exploring. To build a kinder relationship with both of my voices, living and exhausted.

But that's not all. I want to get more comfortable bucking social trends if I merely think I might need the break. To value my well-being and my progress and bubble out from under the crushing weight of expectation and make room for care and support and encouragement.

My living voice is beautiful. And my exhausted voice is fine. It's mine. And with the care and space I need, it won't hurt me much. And when it does, I'll recover. I'll live, I'll speak, I'll rest. And I'll go again.

I don't care what society thinks. I don't care what strangers think. I don't care when my friends think. And I don't care what you think. I know what I need.

Thank you for listening, thank you for thinking, and I'll see you next time.
