---
published: true
title: "SGGO 15: Dreams Come True"
layout: post
---

Episode fifteen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
Dreams come true.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 15: Dreams Come True](/assets/podcast/sggo-15-dreams.mp3)

On dreams come true:
freckles, breasts, and social acceptance.

# Notes


Hello and welcome to the Some Gender Going On podcast, episode 15. I'm Izzy Grosof, or Chroma Grosof, and today we're talking about dreams come true.

It's common for people to talk about dreams come true. It's a common expression to say that something is surprisingly nice.

Usually, those dreams aren't explicitly articulated ahead of time. Usually, they're not articulated as an impossible dream, ahead of time.

But for me, when it came to gender, in a few cases they were. I named the dreams and they came true.

## Freckles

I dreamed of having freckles. Across the bridge of my nose, on my face. I saw people who had them and thought they looked so cute, so pretty.

It's hard to express what the gender feeling of freckles was to me. It feels embarassing, like something that's strange to want. Smooth, clear skin, that's supposed to be appealing, right? I guess for me freckles felt expressive, outdoorsy, alive, free.

I have trouble telling people I wanted them because it feels shameful, strange, weird, like the wrong thing to wish for. And that's Ok. It's Ok to feel that way, so long as I don't live that way. Not every conversation with everyone helps my truest self emerge in the moment. Sometimes, it only comes in reflection. That's Ok. There's time and time and time.

In October 2021, I did freckle makeup on my face. I wished I had freckles like that, because it would look really cute. Really gender. Really me. But I didn't have freckles, I'd never had freckles. It was a dream, not a possibility.

In April 2023, I started HRT. I scoured every resource that might tell me about possible HRT effects. Asked family friends, read the gender dysphoria bible cover to cover, read hundreds of reddit threads, joined trans discords. I heard about skin effects of HRT, thinning, softening, more iridescent, more visible veins, drop in skin oils, reduction of acne and dandruff. Nothing about freckles.

After all, that was barely even a dream, more a fantasy, wishful thinking, imagination, an original character. Not something I wanted, who, me, no, of course not. Part of how I saw myself? No, of course, never. Gender longing when I saw others? I would never.

I was wrapped in the binds of expectation, normalcy.

By January 2024, only eight months later. I started to get my first few freckles on my nose. I was shocked when I started to see them.

By that summer, they were unmistakable. But I wasn't sure how new they were. After all, they fit me so well, they made so much sense. Maybe they'd shown up many summers, and I'd missed them before?

By that winter, January 2025, they'd spread further, to my central brow between my eyebrows and to the corners of my eyes, and intensified on my nose.

I hadn't missed them, they weren't abnormal. They were always meant to be there, ready to grow once I caught up. Once I listened to my dreams.

Now, May 2025, my freckles are consistent and clear. They're on all sides of my eys. They're cute and distinctive and they're me. And I love them. My dream is true.

I am trans-e. My hormone system is primarily estrogen-based. I am transsexual. This hormone system is the one that is best for me. Trans-e is who I am, whether I am aware or not. A part of me has always wanted this, has always longed for this. I have always been trans-e.

## Breasts

I've wished I had breasts for a long time. Ever since my peers started growing theirs, perhaps around 2007, I wished that I had my own. As a teenager, around 2012 and sporadically for years after, I looked into products that flat-chested people might use to expand them. But everything I found, suction and supplements and the like, I didn't have confidence in. As a young adult, in July 2017, I bought something like that anyways, in something approaching desperation.

In April 2019, I hatched: I realized I am nonbinary.

In July 2022, I bought my first breast forms, size small (500g). Ecoup brand. Silicone, not implants, the kind that glued to my chest. They became my chest, become mine, became me. They were prosthetics, not clothes. I wore them all day, every day, not the nights.

In October 2022, I bought size medium (600g). I was gaining a clearer sense of the body I wanted, the body I could create, the body that I augmented, changed, morphed into becoming more myself.

In March 2023, I bought a size large (800g). All Ecoup. These last ones felt right, the right size, the right shape, the right weight. They made exercise feel better, the rhythm of my body feel right.

I had breasts, just as I'd dreamed. They were a dream come true.

Many people I interacted with found them strange. A relative found them disproportionate and surprising and gross. She told me gently, she didn't want to hurt me or change me, but the sentiment behind the words was intense. She wasn't the only one who felt this way, I could tell from the looks in people's eyes. Surprised, maybe even panicked, glancing down then looking away. She was just the only one to tell me.

I accepted that sentiment - I can't control people's perceptions of me. I can only be myself. And these prosthetics, they were me. The me that I'd made and the me that I'd dreamed.

In April 2023, I started HRT. And so my breasts started to grow, in addition to the prosthetics I already wore. But they took a while to grow, it wasn't an immediate switch.

Soon after starting, perhaps July or September 2023, I went for an HRT checkup, and as a standard part of the checkup, my endo wanted to see my development, to check if all was progressing well, and was quite surprised by my breast size. I told her about the forms and took them off. Even to a professional, they looked realistic through my top.

Eventually, I stopped wearing the prosthetics, perhaps around December 2023, and went just with the growing ones. Once my second set, my growing set, felt like me. Once I'd again unified the me that I'd made with the me that I'd dreamed, the me that I knew was right.

In May 2025, I talked with the same relative again. She said my breasts now looked roughly the same size as from our last conversation, but that they looked nicer now. More proportionate. And it's not just her - I don't get those looks any more. I'm not sure the mechanism of change - a change in people's intuitive gendering of me? Subtle shape or placement differences? Other E effects? I don't know.

Either way, they're a dream come true, and come true again. There's not one way to be trans-e. Not one way to make myself me. Flesh or silicone, I sculpt my dreams onto myself.

## Societal acceptance

Now we turn from body dreams to interpersonal dreams. But they're both intertwined.

I dreamed of being able to be myself in public, in view, visible and glorious and outside. Dreamed that I could explore myself, be myself, dress and act any which way. Be loud and bright and visible and bold and colored-in. I knew that was impossible, though. If you want to get by in this world you have to conform. There's so much violence and danger and oppression out there. Better to stay closeted and unknowing. That's safety. That's not oppression at all. That's what I've always been told.

But still, I dream. I dream of throwing safety to the wind and being myself, being seen, being known.

And step by step, day by day, year by year, I did. I threw off the false safety of conformity. And I stood ready to be crushed, ready to find the limit where society would say "this far and no farther". Ready for defeat and danger and heartbreak.

It hasn't come. I've done so many things that so many "well meaning" people told me weren't safe, weren't normal, were dangerous, would get me hurt. And yet here I stand. And now they tell me that I was so brave. And they never ask who made me scared.

It wasn't always smooth. When I forced my way through fears and strictures, I also overstepped patterns that were good, that I didn't want to tear down, that I respect. I made people uncomfortable, and I regret that. But the world still spins. They'll be Ok. I'm at most an amusing anecdote from long ago, and more likely forgotten.

I'm glad I'm not safe any more. I never hurt more than when I was safe, and I can't live that way ever again.

### Functional acceptance

So, what does my world look like today? I exist in a world of mostly-cis people, who treat me fine. No one freaks out at me for wearing a dress. No one thinks I'm disgusting, or if they do they keep it to themselves where it doesn't affect me. I use a bathroom and no one throws me out. No one's calling the cops on me.

And I don't conform. I'm not stealth at all. I couldn't be, I never will. My voice is all over the place, I don't wear makeup, I'm 5' 9", and I don't design my presentation based on how I'll be perceived.

It's fine, and I'm accepted.

The horrible dangers I grew up internalizing, I don't think those were ever real.

The real dangers that people were experiencing when I was young have receeded.

I'm not saying they're gone completely. I'm saying the world I live in is much more accepting than the world I grew up fearing, and much more accepting than the world that existed.

I can just go where I want, do what I want, present however I want, with the full expectation that people will either be fine with it or keep out of my business, and that expectation is upheld.

Sure, people call me "he", and I have "she" as an option because not many people can pull off they. Fine, oh well. Even people who get it wrong don't give me trouble.

I can and do go outside late at night, take the train home at 1am, all of it. And it's fine. No one cares, no one does anything, no one tries anything.

I am in no physical danger. Yes, if I wear a dress.

This is a dream come true. Being myself easily and without danger is a world that scarcely existed, before. And even more so, I was told it did not exist at all. I could only dream of it. And now I'm living in it.

Of course, I can't rest on priveledge. This comfort needs to be expanded, not taken for granted. But it's a dream come true that it exists at all, anywhere. And part of why I make this podcast is to say: More of your dreams are possible too.

## Future Dreams

I'm not done dreaming. I have a very specific dream in mind when I say that. But it's a gentle, soft dream, unready for the light of day. I'll carry it under the moon, take care of it and treasure it.

One day, not too far off, I'll be ready for it to exist. For it to be real. For it to be me.

Thank you for listening. Thank you for thinking. I hope some of your impossible dreams come true as well. I'll see you next time.
