---
published: true
title: "SGGO 14: New Developments"
layout: post
---

Episode fourteen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
New developments.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 14: New Developments](/assets/podcast/sggo-14-developments.mp3)

On new developments in my gender journey:
New self-concepts, trans-e for my sex and transchromatic for my gender,
and new things I'm trying out, nail polish dots and my belly and my arm hair.

# Notes

Izzy

Some Gender Going On podcast

New developments in gender

A bit less scripted

Start by talking about some recent developments in self-conceptualization, how I'm thinking about myself.

Then, I'll talk about some new gender aspects I'm trying out.

I've been thinking of myself as nonbinary, which is great, but it's an umbrella term. My gender is something more specific. A personal gender, a gender that I have but I have no reason to believe is shared by anyone else.

So I went very specific, to create a name for something that was all mine. This name is ulzilna, which I created by jamming together syllables in Ancient Summerian, which was the language of the most trans affirming historical society that I know of. The syllables of ulzilna mean:

- ul: joy, pleasure, satisfaction; star; flower; bud; to glitter, to shine.
- zil: To make beautiful; to be loving, gentle, affectionate; to caress
- na: they (third-person singular pronoun)

I am an ulzilna. It is the only name that exactly describes my gender. It's a name that's all mine - go ahead, google it. U-l-z-i-l-n-a. Put quotes around it or they'll try to auto-respell it to some other garbage. Ulzilna: it's just mine.

But, at the same time, it's a name I made up. So it has no meaning beyond the meaning I gave it, and the meaning the syllables already have.

So to understand myself, and plan and organize and strive forth, I wanted something more.

Moreover, ulzilna is my gender. And it's not just my gender that is trans. My sex, my biology, is trans too. So I need something to help my conceptualize that as well.

## Trans-E

My name for my sex, as in my biology, is trans-e, short for trans-estrogen.

You may ask, doesn't english have words for sexes already? Aren't the terms male and female?

No, and I'll tell you why.

Let's talk about sex, the biological categorization of people based on hormones, primary and secondary sex characteristics, reproductive systems, chromosomes, etc.

Some people will try to tell you that there are sexes called "male" and "female". This is bullshit.

"Male" and "Female" are synonymous with "man" and "woman". When I say my bus driver is a man, or I say my bus driver is male, I am communicating the exact same information. 

This is clear to anyone who speaks English.

A list of the best female musicians and the best musicians who are women or girls is the same list.

Ignoring the plain meaning of the words, clear to everyone who speaks the language, the universal practice in the American medical system is to pretend that "male" is a sex category, while "man" is a gender category. This obvious falsehood is present in both medical literature and medical practice, keeping a big "male" at the top of my medical charts, and pretending it isn't nust calling me a man, denying my transness. This fiction is so pervasive as to be present in the overwhelming majority of dictionaries, which pretend that "female" refers to the sex that can produce ova, and "male" to the sex that can produce sperm.

This too is obvious bullshit. The medical system isn't going to stop calling me male if I get an orchiectomy. They wouldn't stop calling someone female if they got an oophorectomy. They don't care if my hormones change, my chromosomes have never been inspected.

Uterus transplants have been done. When trans people are eventually allowed to receive them, that won't cause the recipient to be referred to as female.

The only thing that matters to these systems is legal sex. What's on your birth certificate. How an insurance company classifies you. What's on your ID. This signifies your history and your ability to navigate the systems of power and of beauracracy. It has nothing to do with biology and nothing to do with sex.

So we don't have established terms for sex categories and sex identity terms. We just have insults, like "trans women are male", which is obvious transphobia, whether it comes from a place of personal bigotry or institutional bigotry.

Similarly, I have never been male, and I have not become female. Because those words just mean "man" and "woman", and I am neither.

So we don't have any words for a sex identity or a sex category. Fine. But we do have sex categories, we do have sex identities, even if we don't have words for them.

Instead, we have words for more specific characteristics. Does someone have breasts? Have a beard? What kind of reproctive organs, if any? Genitals? What chromoses?

Most of these, while being personally relevant, and not socially relevant. It is rude to ask someone if they have a penis, unless the two of you are figuring out what having sex will look like, or similarly intimate discussions.

There's one exception, in my opinion, which is hormones. Hormone levels affect skin texture, body shape, body hair, head hair, and many more externally visible effects, on top of a multitude of internal-only effects, like emotional self-connection, sensory intensity, being able to cry, and many more.

So unlike all the other characteristics, sex identity around hormones makes sense. Again, "male" and " female" are not referring to this identity - they're synonyms for men and women. 

Instead, the identity terms are "E" and "T", short for estrogen and testosterone. And we can have further terms for microdosing or cycling or menopause or other hormone identities. 

I had T before. I have E now. I am trans-E. This is part of who I am. 

And it's part of who I've wanted to be, even before I knew the concept. Skin texture, fat placement, hips, muscle shape, face shape, body hair, body odor, and many more, I wanted these to be different for a long time, and now they are.

That desire, that's part of my identity too.

I've always been trans-E (desire), and now I'm trans-E (actualized) as well.

And I want to make absolutely clear that all of this is orthogonal to my gender. I am nonbinary. I am not a woman, not female. Just E. There are women who are E and women who are T and women who are neither, and I am none of them and have never been. 

These are separate concepts and separate parts of myself. 

And they're both trans. To have been T and to now be E, that's a way to be trans. Back when I was T and wanted to be E, but didn't know that was my desire, that's a way to be trans too. And to be nonbinary, to reject the gender labels of boy and man and male: also trans.

I am both transsexual (trans-E) and transgender (ulzilna).

E is fucking wonderful: I love everything it does.

[Ramble about being trans-E]

## Transchromatic 

So, I have a word for my sex (trans-E) and I have a word for my gender (ulzilna). What more do I need?

I want a path I can explore, a direction to explore, and organizing principle. I want to find the pattern within me, without reference to the patterns I was expected to embody.

The problem is,
I have been mentally lumping myself in with trans women 
Using terms like "transfem"
A mindset pushed by society that I insufficiently resisted
That there are "girl enbies" and "boy enbies"
And I plopped myself into girl enby

I saw a social media post: "Happy international women's day to all women, and women-adjacent people". I'm not woman adjacent, that's not me. I've got my own day: International Non-binary people's day, July 14th.

So no, I'm not a girl enby. I reject that notion utterly.

And I'm not 
That's not me
I'm not a woman-lite
Fuck that
Go burn and die

I've learned over the years that having male-dominated hobbies like baseball statistics and recreational programming doesn't make me a man or man-lite

And I need to escape the more insidious, "gentler" bullshit that having women-dominated clothing preferences and hormone system makes me a woman or woman-lite

As with every conceptual dysphoria, I need a new way to describe myself. I am transchromatic. I am colorful and soft and confident and intense and bold and loud and vibrant and exuberant and swirly and cute and beautiful. And if someone thinks those sound feminine or those sound masculine, they can damn well shut up about it and keep it to themself.

I picked the name Chroma for myself, along these same lines. My name is Chroma, in addition to Izzy. Use whichever you please.

What is the opposite of grey? Chroma.

Chroma is intensity, saturation, distinctiveness, in the world of color. Rich red and bold blue and piercing pink. As far from dull and normal and unchanged and filled down as it is possible to be. A chromatic scale is one that adds color, adds richness, adds possibilities.

Chroma is who I am, and who I want to be. Change. Distinct. Unconstrained. Brimming with possibility. As much me as I can be.

A living incarnation of Steorra Swefn, in all the shining glory of the bright specks of the night.

I am visible. I am loud. I am rainbow tie-dye and 6-inch pins and a spinning cloud of colorful skirts. Unapologetic, unwavering, charting a fresh-trod path.

The warmth of a fire. The depth of a clear still lake. The majesty of the horizon. The lushness of the forest.

Interest and curiosity and learning and joy, and sharing and stories and special interests.

Conversations through the night and a walk home at dawn. Sunrise through soft warm snow. A cozy bed in a room drenched in rainbows. 

I am Chroma.

That's the meaning of chroma in colors. But in addition, a chromatic scale in music fills in all the tones, exuberant, unconstrained, unconfined to traditional expectations.

Chromatic aberation is an untamable fringe of rainbow around the edges of image seen through a lens, especially where black and white meet. Modern telescopes remove chromatic aberation by using mirrors instead of lenses. But my eyes have lenses. And when I look at the moon on a dark night, one side is blueish, and the other is reddish. Chromatic, inescable color, even when none is intended. That's me.

I am transchromatic. Colorful, bold, unique, flowing, and very connected to being an ulzilna. A path I can follow. Flower-patterned dresses and bold confidence.

And don't try to limit me to just trans-e and just transchromatic. Just the first brush strokes, the first steps on another path.

## What I'm not

If I'm transchromatic and trans-e, how is that different from being a trans woman. What am I not?

Well, being a trans woman is pretty expansive, so there's no specific point of differentation. And I'm never going to invalidate anyone's experience of gender. So I'm just going to list some things that feel woman to me, but don't feel transchromatic or ulzilna, and which are not part of my gender.

[Rample about each] 
- heels
- makeup
- dainty or delicate - people may think of these as 
- long, tight sleeves
- corset, shapewear
- knees together (spread)
- tying my hair
- clean
- feeling unsafe when outside at night

## The future

Nails
[Ramble about each]
- dots!
- better sensory - sides, top coat
- chips off one nail at a time, rather than around the edges. Stochastic! I like it so much better.
- more resilent - a month in and five nails going strong, another two have a few flecks left. I'll redo them once they're all gone. Which, at this rate, won't be until the nail underneath the dot has grown out so far it cracks off. Fuck yeah.
- just as colorful, way more unique.
- much better

Belly
[Ramble on each]
- soft, smooth, lovely.
- fluster lesbians by (consenually) pulling up my shirt
- feels nice
- looks like people I find attractive
- I want to wear crop tops
- hurt in certain postures - sitting forward, lying to side.
- accept:  hurt and society doesn't mean wrong
- ongoing

Arm hair
- I'm growing it out. I've been shaving it for like 3 years.
- I want to see what it looks like again
- The parts that are grown in, where I never shaved, are nice, subtle and greyish and fine
- like my chest hair. So much softer and lighter than it was back then. Maybe my arm hair will be too. Maybe I'll like it.
- itchy
- shower. Original impetus for shaving.

## Conclusion

[Ramble]
I never want to be stationary
Never want to give up on the possibility of better, on striving for better
Never want to resign 
Steorra Swefn 
The dream of an ever-better future. For the world, for a community, for myself
Science, discovery, people growing closer 
Moral arc
My future is bright
Join me
Thank you
