---
published: true
title: "SGGO 16: Sweating"
layout: post
---

Episode sixteen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
Sweating.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 16: Sweating](/assets/podcast/sggo-16-sweating.mp3)

Feeling gross from the heat, and seeing it as nonbianry
and the humanness of gender.

# Notes

Hey everyone, this is Izzy Grosof, and this is SGGO 16, and today we're taking about sweating.

Less scripted 

This summer, I've been feeling gross
Sweat disproportionate to environment 

Go out, get hot, start sweating, go inside, keep sweating, dripping
Feeling sticky long after going in, lying on a couch in cold AC, not feeling hot but still feeling sticky and gross and dripping and exhausted 
Sweat in folds

It's not sweating outside that I mind. It's still sweating an hour later after I've gone inside in a quite mild environment

Association between sweat, dirtyness, odor, and unalterable/inherent masculinity/maleness. Since first puberty.

[ramble about association]

Surrounded by women who run a lot colder than I do.

Sweat out of my head, out of my scalp, dripping down my face.

Last summer, too.

Dissociated, avoid thinking, let it continue. Avoid avoid avoid

[ramble]

I don't want to live like that

Not just the individual experience. When I'm with someone and I'm sweating and I raise my arms, I'm hyperaware of my smell. People (especially women) say that the room's too cold, they need to put on another layer, and meanwhile I'm sitting there in a sleeveless dress, sweat dripping down my face.

Accept myself. I do overheat, I am like this. I love myself as I am.

[ramble]

Coping mechanisms
Spray myself down with the ac on. Handy little spray bottle
Single layer as much as possible
Wipe off. Cloth in my keychain, with headphones. Just got cute little mini handkerchiefs, rainbow trim 

Feeling it evaporate reminds me that I can be cool, 

[ramble]

These experiences are not distinctive of men or women. They have vague resemblances, like to hot flashes or to a stereotypical young man in a sweat-stained tracksuit, but they're really outside of that whole world. My temperature preference is colder than all of the cis people I interact with regularly, and not just in a "I'm tough, I can take it" way, but in a "thank fuck I can actually relax" way. Students in my lab class, sleeveless dress, bundling up.

So I am nonbinary when it comes to this aspect of my body, of my sex. I like that about myself. 

Humanness as gender. Makeup, artificiality. Muscle building for aesthetics (as opposed to incidental). Warm and fleshy and soft. And sweat for with that. And so does wiping myself and spraying myself. 


Self love.

[ramble]

Second puberty. Strange and unexpected changes are par for the course. Rediscovering my body. Just because I don't know anyone who's experienced this doesn't make it bad. I blaze my own path, chart my own story.

My sweat smells different. It's clearest when I'm in a decent packed venue, where men do smell like I used to. But no more. There is a sneak, but I just smell it briefly when the airflow lines up just right. When I intentionally seek it out, like in a well-used pillow it smells mild, a bit of salt and a bit of umami, like olive oil with a bit of soy sauce. My brainworms still try to tell me it's disgusting and male. And they're wrong. And it's ok that I feel that way sometimes. The feelings are real, and so is the change.

And with humanness being part of my gender, there is joy to explore as well. Gender euphoria from impact of a cold spray, the first, most intense sensation of a cold breeze starting evaporation. From a cold-lukewarm shower. And yes that means a lot of tuning, a narrow region of join amidst too hot and too cold. Treating myself with joy and care and softness and affection. Especially when that care is unrecognizable to someone who doesn't understand me. A cold shower isn't an expression of ascetism and self-abnegation. It's an expression of love and comfort and self-acceptance.

That's the core, at the end of the day. I love myself. My heat and sweat are part of me. As HappyHappy sings in [Overreaction](https://music.youtube.com/watch?v=qJSCmSXc7N0), "there's no such thing as an overreaction, it's just a just a very strong reaction". My sweat isn't an overreaction to the heat I experience, it's just a very strong reaction to that heat. And I can build a nice life around that reaction. Spray bottles and wipes and accepting my own experience.

Thank you for listening, thank you for thinking, see you next time.

