---
published: true
title: "SGGO 18: Epiglottal Speech"
layout: post
---

Episode eighteen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
Epiglottal speech.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 18: Epiglottal speech](/assets/podcast/sggo-18-epiglottis.mp3)

About my epiglottal speech, a unique ultra-low style of speech that doesn't use the vocal folds.

# Notes

[In epiglottal speech]

My name's Izzy Grosof, and this is episode 18 of the Some Gender Going On podcast. This episode is on epiglottal speech, which is how I'm speaking right now. This episode is a little different than my other episodes. I'm both demonstrating and discussing my epiglottal style of speech, which you're hearing now. If you have trouble understanding me, no worries, I've provided the notes I'm reading off of on my website so feel free to listen to that instead.

### How I got here

I've been making this kind of speech for a long time, at least five years. I used to call it my "demon voice", and more recently my "ultra-low voice", and I've only recently found out that it involves vibrating my epiglottis, thanks to having a laryngoscopy as part of the intake for seeing a speech-language pathologist for gender reasons. As you can hear, it's very low, I can only produce a few words per breath, and it irritates my throat somewhat - I need to take breaks to recover, though I have a reasonable degree of stamina. I've never heard anyone else speak this way, and as you'll hear latter I only recently heard anyone who sounds even somewhat similar.

I developed it intuitively, without any intentional practice. For years, I just used it as a party trick, giving people a mild start or using it to voice D&D characters. But it's occuring to me that it might be really gender affirming for some people.

I've never seriously tried to teach it to anyone. I don't know if it can be learned, but I hope so - I know a lot of people who would love to be able to speak in a deep, intense way like this, especially in a gender way. I enjoy it in a gender way, in a nonbinary contrast way, though I wouldn't want to use it all that frequently.

I'd definitely be up to try teaching it to anyone who's interested in learning, and I'll talk more on that later, but feel free to get in touch via Mastodon or email via the links in the footer.

Moreover, this type of speech doesn't use the vocal cords, so it should be equally learnable regardless of whether someone's had testoterone in their system, thickening their vocal cords, or not. So I think it's particularly useful for people who want a deeper, more masculine vocal option, without taking testosterone.

### How it works

Let's get into how I produce this voice. As I mentioned earlier, this is epiglottal speech: I am vibrating my [epiglottis](https://www.earthslab.com/anatomy/epiglottis/), which is the flap just above the vocal cords that separates the larynx and trachea (voice and lungs) from the esophagus (food and water). Normally, this flap either fully closes off the larynx, when swallowing, burping, etc., or fully closes off the esophagus, when breathing, talking, etc.

I'm not fully closing off either. Instead, I'm partially obstructing my larynx with my epiglottis, so when I breathe out forcefully my epiglottis vibrates. That vibration is at the heart of the speech you are hearing. With my epiglottis vibrating, I modulate the speech with my upper vocal anatomy, such as my pharynx, my mouth, and my nose, the same as I would if I were speaking with my vocal folds normally. Note the difference in terminology: The vocal folds are also called the "glottis", while I am using my epiglottis. Epiglottis basically means "the thing above the glottis".

### Connection to pharyngo-esophogal speech after TEP

This is a type of [alaryngeal speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alaryngeal_speech), meaning it doesn't use the vocal folds, but it's not one of the most common kind of alaryngeal speech. Most people who use alaryngeal speech are people who have had their larynxes removed, often due to cancer. While there are several types of alaryngeal speech, one that sounds quite similar to my epiglottal speech is the speech of people who have had a [tracheo-esophogeal puncture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tracheo-esophageal_puncture), and vibrate the tissues of the pharyngo-esophogeal segment to speak. (The PE tissues)

These people breathe in through a tracheostoma, a hole in their necks below when the larynx used to be, and then close that hole with a finger to push air through a one-way valve that they've had implanted connecting their tracheas to their esophaguses, and breathe out through this valve, vibrating the top of the esophagus and the pharynx, before modulating with the mouth and nose to produce their speech.

Becasue the PE tissues are right next to the epiglottis, this manner of speech sounds remarkably similar to the speech I'm making right now. Check out the [video by Simon Roper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BsI2dVSWXW4) linked in the notes about the 'Shout at Cancer' charity and the 'Louder than Before' quire performance, which features people using this PE-tissue voice.

Check out in particular the speaker at 3:19 in that video, whose voice sounds similar to mine, though he has much more stamina and his voice is a bit higher-pitched than mine. He's the first person I've ever encountered who had a voice similar to mine, though of course quite different mechanisms. It's very cool!

Because I'm vibrating my epiglottis, which is physically much larger than the vocal folds, it vibrates much slower and produces this cool, low, choppy-sounding voice. That's also why it's suitable for people regardless of whether they have thick or thin vocal folds - the epiglottis is always large like this, regardless of whether one's been on T or not.

As for stamina and comfort, while this manner of speech is definitely somewhat harsh on my throat, I can maintain it for a long time - I've done it throughout most of a five-hour D&D session before, so it's quite sustainable, though I did need a few pauses.

### How to produce epiglottal speech

I want to talk a bit more on how to learn this voice. I think the key to producing epiglottal speech is to learn to intentionally control the motion of the epiglottis. That's the bit that moves when swallowing, so it helps to pay attention to the feeling of swallowing, the pausing and resuming of breath when you swallow.

Next, I'd practice making a sound by moving the epiglottis around, like this: [choking-like sounds]. I know it sounds like I'm choking, but I'm fine - that's the sound of pressure building up and releasing as I move my epiglottis back and forth. Note however that for those sounds, I was breathing in, whereas for the voice I'm breathing out.

To make the epiglottal voice, I'm breathing out quite emphatically but steadily, so it'll help to practice high-volume breath support, and pushing breath with your diaphram. For context, I played trumpet for many years in elementary, middle, and high school, and the diaphram, and the breathing-out for this voice feels somewhat similar to playing a trumpet loudly.

Once you start to produce some kind of sound with this technique, it gets easier to refine and train the voice, build stamina and comfort and all that. So don't worry if you can only sustain it briefly at first.

Another tip is that my throat is very wide when I'm making this voice, to give my epiglottis space to move into place above the larynx.

It helps to gently feel your neck as you're practicing and learning. The place where you feel the strongest vibrations should be well above where you feel vocal fold vibrations - for me, it's about an inch higher on the neck. I can also feel my throat enlarging outwards to a larger diameter as I do this - similar to when I hold a big breath of air.

Again, if you're interested in learning, please get in touch via Mastodon or email.

### How do I feel about my epiglottal voice?

It ties into my previous discussion in Episode 17 about my bell voice and my leaves voice, the high ringing clear voice and the lower, crunchier voice. This is very clearly a third voice altogether, which I still internally call my demon voice, affectionately.

I really like it, it's a positive part of myself. I think part of why is that it's so far outside any sort of normative speech. It bears a surface-level resemblance to masuline speech, in the low pitch and the choppy, rolling sound, but pushed so far that it exits that category and establishes its own category, at least to me. It feels like it's outside the gender binary of speech, is what I'm getting at. Moreover, I really like unique or distinctive gendered behavior, doing things no one else is doing, or very few people.

Beyond that, it's a voice that feels extremely embodied. I feel the vibrations in my throat, and all the way up into my mouth as I speak this way. It makes me feel in tune with my body in a way my default voice, my leaves voice, has never felt. That voice is something coming out of me. This voice is me.

In the end, thank you for listening, thank you for thinking, and I'll see you next time.
