---
published: true
title: "SGGO 19: Gender of the Night"
layout: post
---

Episode nineteen of the Some Gender Going On podcast:
The gender of the night.
You can play it or download it here:

[SGGO 19: Gender of the Night](/assets/podcast/sggo-19-night.mp3)

About the gender of the night, quiet, stillness, freedom from hierarchy and extraction and rules. Mine.

# Notes

My name's Izzy Grosof, and welcome to the Some Gender Going On podcast, episode 19.

Tonight we're going to talk about the gender of the night.

Tonight, the night I wrote this part of the script I walked. I walked through streets I knew and streets I didn't. Through dark parks and quiet cobbled roads. Wherever the night was dark and quiet, the trees rustled and stars shone.

I walked long and I walked far. North out of the city in which I live, past the next town and into the town beyond. Left at 10 and halfway home at midnight-15, as I write these words. I am tired and happy.

I feel one with the night, a kinship, a familiarity. Some people fear the dark, flinch from what goes bump in the night. I embrace the dark. I am what goes bump.

The night is a place of subtlety. There is still endless variety to see and experience, but we must let our senses acclimate, become open to finer detail than we emphasize in the day.

The night is a place of contemplation. I stare up at the sky, listen to the planes pass overhead, and reflect. There's a calm, a meditative aspect, that comes from release from the frenzy of the day.

The night is release from pressures and constraints and get this done before that comes next. I have nothing more to prepare for, nothing more owed, nothing but time and time and time. And sleep, and tomorrow, eventually. But for now, I am free.

The night is freedom from inspection and judgement. Nobody cares what I am wearing, how I hold myself, who I perform. I can experiment, I can twirl, I can lie in the grass and stare upwards. All the inspectors are inside their little houses. The vast beyond belongs to me. I am unseen, and I am free.

[Ramble about day is hierarchy and norms; and night is freedom and authenticity]

[Predawn snowfall at MIT]

At night, I can walk down the middle of a residential cobbled road and not a car comes or goes. The night belongs to me. And if a car tried to enter my domain, I'd see its headlights a mile away. It is an outsider here, all noise and light and violent motion. Nothing like my dark, quiet, rustling night.

[Homework turn in at 2 at MIT, walking down the middle of mass ave]

But the freedom of the night does not exist in isolation from culture, from society, from gender. Ever since I've told people I'm nonbinary, been recognized as queer, been confused for women or women adjacent. Ever since, I've been asked if I'm really sure I want to be out at night. Told to stay safe out there. Asked to text someone when I get home. Demanded, even. The demands confused me, until I realized they weren't for my benefit, they were for the demander's benefit. The night scares them so intensely that they need the reassurance of message to assuage their fears of seeing me out into the night.

[Atlanta - train, train, walk]

Their fear is gendered, clearly, and intense. And it doesn't come from nowhere. Stories are legion of women and girls being sexually exploited and threatened. Come home from a party, from a bar, followed home from work, pressured into a stranger's car with a a glint in his eye of what he might be able to do if she's drunk enough, scared enough, alone enough.

These are not distant stories or abstract fears. These are the fears and stories of my friends, people who live in the same cities, in the same walks of life as me.

So why the difference? Why do they fear the night and I find safety and peace in it?

Because we experience different nights.

To me, beyond the physical spin of the earth against the sun, the essence of the night is a lessening of the violent hierarchies of the day. The essence of the day is being controlled by rules. Rules of decorum, observed and enforced. Rules of work, bought and paid. Rules upon rules upon rules, structure to suit those on top, those who embody and gain strength from the norms those rules enforce. The night is the escape from those rules. I speak of course of the outer night, the quiet night. Not under the eyes of the watchmen, or at the heat of the party, but distant and still and unobserved.

Beyond the eyes of everyone who considers themselves normal and normative and who will wield the power of society and the state to maintain the power they have built and crush anyone who deviates from the path of their boot.

Some people are scared of threats that come from the outer night, from the lack of rules and power and norms. Of opportunistic kidnappers and strangers in drunk shouting matches, people sleeping rough and unexplained noises.

But none of these truly scare me, because they have no power over me. Many aren't even scary to begin with, like someone who just happens to be sleeping outside, or are so rare as to not warrant the fears, like kidnapping. As for belligerent strangers, I can learn to see them coming, avoid them in the soft safe stillness.

No, I only fear the threats of the day. The car to run me over, the sex pest to cast his eye on me and drag me in on the threads of power, the busybody to look in my window and find me disgusting and call the cops on me. The scions of power, exerting their control openly, violently, unavoidably. The people whose are emboldened by the alignment of their desires with society's expectations. When I've been threatened without violence by strangers, it's overwhelmingly been in broad daylight. Because dangerous people are those backed up by systemic power, who have nothing to hide.

So to me, the gendered dangers of the inner night, the party, the bar, the late night at work, represent the hierarchical dangers of the day invading the quiet of the night.

The man saying "it's scary and dark out there, you need a nice man to drive you home", putting his arm around my neck, guiding me away, away, into his car, into his house, into his grasp.

A violation of me, and of sanctuary of the night.

This isn't how it is for everyone - without shelter or appropriate clothes, nights can be cold, can be directly, physically dangerous. Some night shift jobs are too. No shade on anyone who experiences those nights.  But when someone asks me if I'm sure I want to walk home alone, with an implicit "wearing that dress" thrown in, these aren't the dangers we're talking about.

So is the night safe?

Well, that's the question: which night? The inner night, the life of the party, full of heart and light and people and the threats of the day? Or the outer night, the rustle of the quiet park, dark and quiet and still?

This night, this walk? I live the outer night. The outer night is where I am free and unobserved and unlimited, where I revel. The outer night is mine. And it is beautiful and endless.

I don't really know what it means to say that something abstract is part of my gender. Out in the vastness of gender space. I don't know what it means, but I know it's true. The night is part of my gender, part of what it means that I'm an ulzilna. The star in the night, the unseen freedom. The gender of the night. Beautiful and endless.

Join me. Join me in enjoying the night.

Lie in the empty park and gaze at the stars. Go out to the beach and contemplate the horizon. Stand among the fluffy white snowfall and hear the muffled quiet stillness.

Join me.

Join me out of the gaze of the great hierarchies, out of the sight of the rich and powerful, beyond the long hand of the norms that brings away at the world.

Join me where we are unseen, and free.

Join me.

Thank you for listening, thank you for thinking, and I'll see you next time.
